This is version 0.5 of MHColour - use at your own peril!
--------------------------------------------------------

(...although I must admit it won't really cause you any problems...)

MHColour is *not* a replacement light utility.  It is intended to be used on any existing
BSP as a method of getting coloured light in.  In it's current incarnation, it's pretty
accurate, if somewhat slow.

In it's default mode, it will generate a (fake) BSP 30 map for you.

You can also use it to generate a LIT file compatible with the DarkPlaces engine.  This
will cause it to lose some accuracy in places since it must fiddle with the light offsets
of the LIT file a little in order to avoid mutilating the BSP.

BSP 30 is recommended as the most reliable method.


Usage
-----
MHColour was derived from Tyrlite 0.8, so the usage is mostly similar.  The -colored switch
has been removed because it makes no sense in this context.

MHColour currently only supports the standard Quake, Rogue and Hipnotic texture sets.  I
have received reports of it crashing on TF maps, but have been too busy with the new
engine to look into this in detail.

New command line switches
-------------------------
-force
While running, MHColour will display loads of interesting information on how effective the
colouring process is gonna be.  At any time it decides that the process will be ineffective
you will get an option to abandon ship.  Use -force to override this and always continue,
but don't say I didn't warn you if you don't like what you see.

-lit
Generate a LIT file.  Bear in mind the warning above.  The loss of accuracy will only
occur in one or two places in one or two maps, so it's not really that big an issue.


Boring legal stuff
------------------
MHColour was derived from Tyrlite 0.8 which was GPL'ed - consequently, the GPL also covers
MHColour, even if *not explicitly stated* in the program files.  Any evil, bad or nasty
people out there who like making money out of stuff that others have given away for free
can go fuck off right now.

